OSI layer
Application, Presentation, Session, Transport, Network, data link, physical
netscape came up with SSL
SSL termination is expensive, hence don't do it on origin servers.
Instead place a device in front which can also act as a load balancer.
This is called SSL off load

application layer
this is all customer cares about. that is why they buy router n switches
TFTP which is unreliable but faster. service is not guaranteed. UDP

presentation

session layer
setup and teardown
Intrusion Detection
IPS Intrusion Prevention Systems

Transport layer
segmenting data and reassembling
guaranteed delivery
TCP sliding window. max 15 segments sent at one time.

with advent of internet long distance became free coz it was packetized
voice and data converged.

voice and video uses UDP since your have 150 milliseconds to make it sound right.
a voice call may be 8k payload. very small
video call is big and cant be retransmitted. thats why robot dance
Cisco's A6 chip is programmable thru software. so they can give today's features on yesterdays's hardware

cisco sold wholistic solutions from start to sink
notel was number one in voice at one time
avaya had best pbx one time but not anymore

IT dept. is a cost centre not a revenue centre

Network layer. layer 3. think packets. based on IP addresses. routers
network to network
moves data in packets
IP, router, DHCP
we can thank microsoft for DHCP
BYOD. bring your own device
packet is like an envelope. an address and a payload
addresses are for source and destination

data link. think frames. layer 2. based on MAC addresses. switching
segment. device to device
packet from layer 2 is placed into (encapsulated) data link frame
37% of cisco revenue is from switching
error detection is done here. this is the only place where error detection is done
each frame as a FCS (Frame check sequence) AKA CRC appended to it. 
if framing errors are caught the frame is discarded.

physical
copper, fibre, radio
fibre optic distances can go upto 100km between switches
through put is yet to be determined
you could push 10G thru one wavelength of light and another 10G thru another wavelenght of light and so on.

