router fundamentals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AfW0E1WhO8M

routers connect dissimilar networks
connect HQ to branch office, you need a service provider and a WAN
WAN connects LANs across geographical distances
LAN is like a fire hose. WAN is drinking straw
so you need QoS on this pipe

layer 3 guy inside router uses a routing protocol to direct traffic
routers talk to each other sharing new paths

routing protocols
RIP for small networks
OSPF 
BGP border gateway protocol for large networks like Internet

cisco has its own prop protocol
EIGRP enhanced interior gateway routing protocol

cisco owns the edge router market. think branch office. like 70- 80 

internet is the second global network.
first one was PSTN

one way to connect to branch office is direct circuit
another way is thru Internet (thru VPN) which is a little cheaper
VPN provides an encrypted tunnel between HQ and branch office

VPN has two flavours
Site to Site VPN - bandwidth is guaranteed
Remote access VPN - nothing is guaranteed

you can buy MPLS multi protocol label switching from service provider
cisco created mpls

Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) is a type of data-carrying technique for high-performance telecommunications networks that directs data from one network node to the next based on short path labels rather than long network addresses, avoiding complex lookups in a routing table.

what do you push thru pipe
data, voice, video
you can say to service provider taht out of my 2Mbps i watn 1Mbps for data. i dont need it super fast. so you wont get charged too much
when data is put thru this. provider will put a label on it

i want 256K for voice but make it faster. provider will do it and charge u more
when voice is put thru this provider will put a label on it

i want 768k for video but i want to make sure that it works.
a little more important than voice and bigger than voice
so he will charge you even more

now you can push QoS thru service providers network just like your LAN and unlike WAN or VPN

service providers want to get away from T1 etc which is like 125Mbps since they like to resell the same bandwidth over and over again. so they dont want to sell you dedicated bandwidth.

they want to oversubscribe service and make more money since noone is using their 100% bandwidth all the time

you can goto several service providers and go from colorodo to perth
you cant do this with frame relay

SIP session initiation protocol
The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is a communications protocol for signaling and controlling multimedia communication session such as voice and video calls. The most common applications of SIP are in Internet telephony, as well as instant messaging, over Internet Protocol (IP) networks.

T1 is USA  is E1 in europe
it was dsgined for 24 phone calls. 1.5 Mbps of connectivity
T1 is layer 1.
we now use it for data

MPLS is awesome.

A request for proposal (RFP) is a type of bidding solicitation in which a company or organization announces that funding is available for a particular project or program, and companies can place bids for the project's completion.

in MPLS you can have upto 7 tags on your packets. called customer tags
service providers refer to MPLS as MPLS VPN. its a misnomer since it is not encrypted.
you can get the provider to encrypt it or encrypt it urself for cheap

telepresence







