routing platforms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DxsJS0cXoV4

to connect branch offices to HQ, where you have following requirements
ISR (Integrated Services Router) G2 routers 
One box can do all the following

requirements for each branch office
Switch
WAN
WLAN
Security
    Identity Service, AAA, IPS, VPN, FW
Voice
   Provision voice, Voice mail, PSTN, Jabber, Webex, Video
Server for PoS
       PoE

ISR has many cool things
multicore processor on motherboard, run ios, FW and VPN is baked in 
same chip as ASA firewall. biggest ASA can provide 20G of firewall

WAN acceleration is in ios for small sites
all features are in ios you enable them via license
WLAN is built in and supports 10 access points.
voice is CME inside ios
it can terminate PSTN connection using DSP

Cisco Unified CME Overview. Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express (formerly known as Cisco Unified CallManager Express) is a call-processing application in Cisco IOS software that enables Cisco routers to deliver key-system or hybrid PBX functionality for enterprise branch offices or small businesses
can put upto 4 analog phone and upto 4 PRIs i.e 96 phone calls to outside world

one call fixes it all instead of multiple vendors
all three architectures gather on this one box

cisco features are a big differentiators when compared to competition
cisco has three groups of routers

branch office has different requirements than HQ
stateful firewall

Search Results
In computing, a stateful firewall is a network firewall that tracks the operating state and characteristics of network connections traversing it. The firewall is configured to distinguish legitimate packets for different types of connections.
 
voice bridges, video bridges
leasing equipment is a very attractive option for customers
FXO and FXS


for Aggregation in HQ
ASR 1000
cisco created their own processor for it. the quantun flow processor. took millions of dollars. it has 40 cores. each core has 4 threads. took cisco 5 years.

GSR - Gigabit switching router
catalyst 6500.

there are more router that make up the
IP core of a service provider

In telecommunication, provisioning involves the process of preparing and equipping a network to allow it to provide (new) services to its users. ... give users access to data repositories or grant authorization to systems, network applications and databases based on a unique user identity.

routing value statements
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fX1IthxwjIk

routers are commoditised
they are marker leaders for 15 years

ISR G2 - intersection point for three architectures
ASR

when customer is angry it is called a cap case
when the customer is throwing a fit and giving you hard time
sometimes it is not cisco's fault and the customer shoots themselves in the foot.

In typography, ALL CAPS (short for "all capitals" or "all capitalized") refers to text or a font in which all letters are capital letters. ... Short strings of words in capital letters appear bolder and "louder" than mixed case, and this is sometimes referred to as "shouting".

you get more product out with a lease 30%
plus you have customer on a 3 year cycle
plus the cost of technology is going down.






