switching fundamentals
data people stole a lot of stuff from voice people
since voice was around 70 years more than data

Access Switches
connect to desktops, printer etc
one switch on each floor
24, 48 ports
catalyst 2960 or catalyst 4900

access switches connect to bigger switches called. 
Distribution Switches
generally thru Fiber Optic cable
since copper only goes 100 metres
also it is a bigger pipe since you are connecting upto 48 Gigabit users 
catalyst 4900

Distribution Switches connect to 
Core Switches which may connect to your data center

when IP telephones came, PoE became a requirement
cisco 3550 switches did PoE. power over ethernet
it was called inline power
the power was not enough though 15 watts
so cisco came up with PoE+ 22 watts
now cisco came up with UPoE 60 watts
catalyst 4900
cisco switches have a feature called energywise 
energywise can monitor the power consumption, measure it and turn it off
IT can now charge back other departments for electricity used on switching

ASIC chip in the switch provides intellegence
switches store MAC addresses and ports associated in CAM tables

Cisco is working on next generation products like SDN now
like software defined routers
ARP cache is 300 second or 5 mins

by default every switch has a vlan for voice. vlan 200
so you may have a voice vlan, video vlan, mgmt vlan, dev, stage, prod etc
cisco switches have a network emision control
so they can see if the device has latest updates and what not
if not then the device is placed in a special vlan called remediation vlan
think of it as a quarantine vlan
then a window is popped on client and he is advised taht 
he can enable his/her antivirus and then can use network 
vlan initially was done by port but now it can also be done by your login.

then cisco came up with vlan trunking
so all vlan s could be carried across from one switch to another instead of wasting two port for connecting each vlan. when switch ports are $400 each.

EtherChannel is a port link aggregation technology or port-channel architecture used primarily on Cisco switches. It allows grouping of several physical Ethernet links to create one logical Ethernet link for the purpose of providing fault-tolerance and high-speed links between switches, routers and servers.

enterprise do most of their stuff in switches while service providers do most on router. service providers use switches to mostly fan out

then cisco came up with layer 3 switch
they just put a router into a switch
hence they were able to do inter vlan routing
70k PPS (packets process per second) now goes to 1 million PPS
latest switches can do 12 million PPS. light speed.
cost of routing is now insignificant

layer 2 switch can assign vlans not route between them
layer 3 switch can assign vlans and route between then

a switch may be standalone or a chassis based. (4500)
they have supervisor boards
supervisor runs the ios
you have two sup boards for redundancy and testing while upgrading software on them
you also have line cards for ports
so you order yr chassis which has power supplies and supervisor card
then you build your own switch using line cards
maybe you want to use it as access switch then add a lot of 24 port line cards
or use it as distribution switch or core switch

cisco 6500 brought 2 billion $ in one quarter
now nexus can go upto 15 Terra bytes. nexus are data center/ core switches







