telephony basic
collaboration was a religious war
long distance charges were big
voice and data converged
siemens, alcatel, nortel, avaya all had a significant investment in traditional technologies while cisco had a clean slate.
cisco  changed the world of PBX. IP telephony took off
PSTN was first global network

phone -> pbx -> PSTN -> pbx on other side
                    \                             \
                      \                              \
                        \                               \ 
                            \                             \  
PC -> switch -> router -> WAN ->router on other side
earlier on "toll bypass" was invented. 
pbx 1 talked to router once and voice call tried to use the data path first if bandwidth allowed it. least cost routing

Voice guys did bowling
IT were golfers

voice people understood business better since they were engaged more with customer. IT guys were just locked behind a door working with a server.

PBXes had dial plans
you paid toll charge per min once the call was established. price was close to a dollar per min.

voice over technology i.e.
voice over ATM, voice over Frame Relay, voice over IP

voice over telephony or voice over ip is different from IP telephony

IP telephony is voice as an application
cisco deployed voice as an application

there was a routing table in PBX before there was a router

PBX had 5 parts
1.
trunk cards which connected to PSTN, FXO in VoiP jargon
these could be PRI or analog
cisco replaced it with router

2,
station cards which connected to phone, modems. FXS in VioP jagron
cisco used swithes with PoE

3,
CPU which took care of provisioning and
extension, features. RNA (ring no answer), dial plan, routing table
cisco replaced it with server called call manager aka communications manager

4.
Tone cards like
dial tone card, ring back card
when you took phone off hook, CPU connected you to dial tone card so you hear tone and know that phone is working
ring voltage was applied to your phone when someone called
cisco replaced tone cards with a wav file and more apps

5.
TDM bus
this guaranteed a certain number of simultaneous call e.g. 848

if you used PBX from a certain vendor then you had to use their phones as well
so they were proprietary in nature
this replaced with QoS and security

G3R was a great PBX

SCCP Skinny client control protocol

5 nines reliability = 5 mins downtime a year
99.999 %

how do you define system down time
is it one card down or what
industry std is 30% of all capacity

avaya was number one in enterprise and nortel was number one too
today cisco is number one

customers dont want voice mail anymore

IP phone are also declining
soft phones on PC like jabber are popular
IP Phone - > switch - > communications manager CM
CM knows the MAC address of IP phone already

when you pick up your IP phone off hook
a single packet is sent to CM
CM then starts the CDR (call data record)
CM sends a single packet to your ip phone and tells it to play dial tone wav file
then you dial number and CM looks up who you are trying to call
is that phone on another call? , if yes does it has second line appearance etc etc
if not CM tells the target phone to ring
when the target phone answers the CM tell both phones to talk to each other
two RTP streams. from a to b and b to a
it is no longer going thru CM it is client to client
when you hang up then CM is informed and CDR is updated.

call outside?
CM sees that you are trying to call outside so instructs the router(which is an IP endpoing) to push out dialed numbers to PSTN and once PSTN sets up the call 
the router with IP end point talks to the IP phone at your desk 
so there are essentially two calls
one internal to your network. desk phone to router with IP end point
router to your wife at home

all tones are wav files in IP phone. ring tone, dial tone, busy tone

when you want to send you phone calls across wan you want to use low bit rate
so that 64k packet is squeezed down to 8k
cisco put this special codec on all their phones and instructs them to use that low bit rate codec for call across wan link
CM asks the router before establishing the calls if it can send that call over wan
one CM can handle 40k calls 
you can cluster 100 of these together so you can have 4 million phones in one network

CM cluster
with CM is called publisher and own the database
second CM is called subscriber 
this is done for the integrity of the database
these could be virtual servers
they can be 80 milli seconds apart
halifax to calgary is 80 milli secongs and telus guaranteed it
that is 3 quarters of the way thru the country

you just need license to download CM server
you can even let users pick their own phone numbers if you wanted.

its not telecom and datacom any more. its just datacomm

what if wan goes down? how can ip phone talk to CM server
cisco created SRST. survival remote site telephony
SRST is on all router, you just license it

CUPS - cisco unified presence server
CUC - cisco unity connection. an application server

what is jabber
once it was a company taht built a prop protocol
cisco acquired it in 2008
jabber evolved into XMMP protocol













