Wireless Fundamentals
earliest phone 900MHz
people could hear you. they were not secure

then 2.4GHz. DSS. digital spread spectrum
everybody got on it. so too much interference

then we moved to 5GHz
then DECT 6.0. it is outside spectrum of all other devices

client getting wireless access is a two step process
1. client associates with the access point (SSID). AP is the GW to the wired network.
2. AP challenges the client for credentials. Shared key

if the client has more than one access points available it can determine the best one by asking questions like. "how many users are connected to you" "what is your utilisation"

AP sends your credentials to Tripple A (AAA) server
Authentication, Authorisation, Accounting

properly configured wireless is very secure

data between client and AP is encrypted with a key that is rotated regularly.

if a customer says "we dont do wireless. wiresless is insecure" then sell him wireless to prevent someone from bringing in an unauthorised wireless AP

when laptop moves from one AP to another AP it is called roaming.during this time any download continues with 1 sec hiccup. SSO

then cisco started doing voice over wireless. that 1 sec of re authenticating was 20 lifetimes for voice. hence the call dropped when you roamed from one cell to another
so cisco aquired new company called airspace to fix this 1 sec issue
they removed all the intelligence from AP and added a new device to the network called a controller.

now this delay is down from 1 sec to 50 milli seconds. these are called light weight APs. now audio calls and video calls do not drop
so light is right.
wireless is like being on a hub not a switch
ISE identity service engine. a new product
now we can people have register their BYO device.
you can put profiles on peoples devices.

prime is a good software to troubleshoot cisco wireless stuff
if you pay for MIBs you can manage anything by unlocking the advanced featuers.

what interferes with wireless?
other wireless devices, microwave ovens, bluetooth
microwave ovens uses 2.4 GHz frequency for rubbing particles together and generating heat. we use same frequency with AP. only AP use 100 milli watts and microwave ovens use 1500 watts

cisco AP have mini spectrum analyzers built in that can see noise and switch to another channel if one channel gets too crowded 

2.4 GHz
13 channels
only 3 non overlapping channels
1, 6, 11

5GHz
23 channels
20 non overlapping channels

802.11b,  2.4 GHz,   11mbs,  5.5 Mb thruput
802.11g   2.4         54mb/s     25Mb
802.11n   2.4/5                        100Mb
folloing is coming soon. 2GHz will die then
802.11 ac  5GHz                      1.3Gb will eventually goto 4Gb
the way you get this high thru put is coz they are bonding the channels so you only get 9 channels instead of 20.

iphone 4s has 802.11n  it can do b,g,n but has only 1 radio in it
ipad also has   802.11n it can do b,a,g,n but has two radios in it. so i can do both 2.4GHz and 5GHz

bluetooth is 2.4GHz so it wont bother new standard just like AM radio does not bother FM radio
2.4GHz is the junk band. it already has saturation problems

spatial streams. when signal from an AP bounce off walls and other objects and reach  the client as three different signals. the clients are  smart now and can use these for sending traffic thru all three.




